All third-party Maven dependencies are split between two different third-party packages:
1. One for the app build (which lives under ``//third_party``).
2. One for scripts builds (which lives under ``//scripts/third_party``).

For each of these dependency trees, all dependencies which should be made directly available to code within the project need to be defined in either the [app's direct_maven_versions.bzl](https://github.com/oppia/oppia-android/blob/develop/third_party/versions/direct_maven_versions.bzl) or [scripts's direct_maven_versions.bzl](https://github.com/oppia/oppia-android/blob/develop/scripts/third_party/versions/direct_maven_versions.bzl).

In each of these files, ``PRODUCTION_DEPENDENCY_VERSIONS`` should be updated for dependencies used by non-test code (like UI code for the app, or script logic for scripts). Dependencies which are only needed for automated tests or test-only scripts/builds should be added to ``TEST_DEPENDENCY_VERSIONS``. Dependencies in the app dependency tree cannot be accessed by script code, and vice versa.

In summary, the following steps **must** be done each time a dependency is needing to be added, removed, or upgraded:
1. Update the corresponding direct_maven_versions.bzl file.
2. The dependency's corresponding ``maven_install.json`` file needs to be updated.
3. The dependency lists & its installation manifest need to be validated.
4. (App dependencies only) The catalog of tracked Maven dependencies (``maven_dependencies.textproto``) needs to be regenerated.

## Updating `maven_install.json` files

1. Ensure that after making changes in the list of dependencies, the final list is always lexicographically sorted.
2. After updating the dependencies, run one of the following commands:
   ```sh
   REPIN=1 bazel run @unpinned_maven_app//:pin
   ```
   (if changing **app** dependencies)
   ```sh
   REPIN=1 bazel run @unpinned_maven_scripts//:pin
   ```
   (if changing **scripts** dependencies)

## Validating changed dependencies & transitive dependencies

There's a script that can help ensure that dependencies are valid. Specifically, it checks:
- Direct dependencies are actually being referenced.
- There are no duplications between direct and _transitive_ dependencies (those are, dependencies that the app indirectly needs, i.e. the dependencies of the app's dependencies).
- All transitive dependencies are actually needed (since this list is usually automatically generated by the validation script, this should only happen if an existing dependency is removed or its version changed).
- There are no version conflicts (which indicates that the version for a dependency in Bazel doesn't match what's actually be used via Maven).

To run the script to validate **app** dependencies, use (from within the repository root directory):
```sh
bazel run //scripts:validate_maven_dependencies -- $(pwd) third_party/versions/direct_maven_versions.bzl third_party/versions/transitive_maven_versions.bzl third_party/versions/maven_install.json //third_party //...
```

To run the script to validate **scripts** dependencies, use (from within the repository root directory):
```sh
bazel run //scripts:validate_maven_dependencies -- $(pwd) scripts/third_party/versions/direct_maven_versions.bzl scripts/third_party/versions/transitive_maven_versions.bzl scripts/third_party/versions/maven_install.json //scripts/third_party //scripts/...
```

## Updating `maven_dependencies.textproto`
You will also need to run the [GenerateMavenDependenciesList.kt](https://github.com/oppia/oppia-android/blob/develop/scripts/src/java/org/oppia/android/scripts/maven/GenerateMavenDependenciesList.kt) script to update the [maven_dependencies.textproto](https://github.com/oppia/oppia-android/blob/develop/scripts/assets/maven_dependencies.textproto) file. This text proto file contains the license links for all the maven third-party dependencies on which Oppia Android depends. Please make sure that before running the script, you have successfully updated [maven_install.json](https://github.com/oppia/oppia-android/blob/develop/third_party/maven_install.json) by following the above-mentioned [guide](https://github.com/oppia/oppia-android/wiki/Updating-Maven-Dependencies#updating-maven_installjson). To run this script, run the following command (from within the repository root directory):

```sh
bazel run //scripts:generate_maven_dependencies_list -- $(pwd) third_party/versions/maven_install.json scripts/assets/maven_dependencies.textproto scripts/assets/maven_dependencies.pb
```

### Handling Exception: `Too few arguments passed`
If after running the script the exception message says: **Too few arguments passed**, then please ensure that you copied the command correctly from [here](https://github.com/oppia/oppia-android/wiki/Updating-Maven-Dependencies#running-generatemavendependencieslistkt-script).
The script accepts 4 parameters to be passed to run successfully:
1. **_path_to_directory_root_**: directory path to the root of the Oppia Android repository, e.g - `home/<username>/opensource/oppia-android`
2. **_path_to_maven_install_json_**: relative path to the maven_install.json file, e.g - `third_party/maven_install.json`
3. **_path_to_maven_dependencies_textproto_**: relative path to the maven_dependencies.textproto, e.g - `scripts/assets/maven_dependencies.textproto`
4. **_path_to_maven_dependencies_pb_**: relative path to the maven_dependencies.pb file, e.g - `scripts/assets/maven_dependencies.pb`


### Handling Exception: `Licenses details are not completed`
The script can take about a minute to execute, and if the script fails with the exception: `Licenses details are not completed`, you will need to do some manual work in `maven_dependencies.textproto`.
The script would call out specific dependencies that need to be updated manually, e.g - 

```
Please verify the license link(s) for the following license(s) manually in 
maven_dependencies.textproto, note that only the first dependency that contains the license 
needs to be updated and also re-run the script to update the license details at all places:

license_name: Android Software Development Kit License
original_link: https://developer.android.com/studio/terms.html
verified_link_case: VERIFIEDLINK_NOT_SET
is_original_link_invalid: false
The first dependency that should be updated with the license: com.google.firebase:firebase-analytics:17.5.0

```

Go to `maven_dependencies.textproto` and find the dependency that is mentioned as `The first dependency that should be updated with the license` in the output. For example, in the above case, look for `com.google.firebase:firebase-analytics:17.5.0` in maven_dependencies.textproto and open the `original_link` of its license in your browser and check if the link points to any valid license or not. If the link does not point to a valid license, set the 'is_original_link_invalid' field of the license to 'true'.
For example, if the original_link https://www.example.com is invalid, then set `is_original_link_invalid` to true.

```textproto
maven_dependency {
  artifact_name: "artifact:name"
  artifact_version: "1.0"
  license {
    license_name: "XYZ License"
    original_link: "https://www.xyz.com"
    is_original_link_invalid: true
  }
}
```

#### Categorizing the license link

If the link does point to a valid license then choose the most appropriate category for the link:
1. scrapable_link: If the license text is plain text and the URL mentioned can be scraped directly from the original_link of the license. 
                   e.g - https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.txt
2. extracted_copy_link: If the license text is plain text but can not be scraped directly from the original_link of the license.
                        e.g - https://www.opensource.org/licenses/bsd-license
3. direct_link_only: If the license text is not plain text, it's best to display only the link of the license.
                     e.g - https://developer.android.com/studio/terms.html

After identifying the category of the license, modify the license to include one of the above-mentioned 'url'. e.g - 
```textproto
license {
  license_name: "The Apache Software License, Version 2.0"
  original_link: "https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.txt"
  scrapable_link {
    url: "https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.txt"
  }
}
```

Also, if the license falls in the `extracted_copy_link` category, then go to [Oppia-android-licenses](https://github.com/oppia/oppia-android-licenses) and find if there exists a copy of the license already in the repository. If there exists a copy of the license, perform the following steps to get the link for the license that can be scraped easily.
1. Click on the appropriate license file. 
2. Now click on the raw button positioned in the left of the edit and delete button.
3. Copy the URL from the browser and mention it at the appropriate place.

If the license does not exist in the Oppia-android-licenses repository, then coordinate with the Oppia Android team to fix it. Then repeat the above steps to update maven_dependencies.textproto.

After modifying `maven_dependencies.textproto` for all the called out licenses in the console output, re-run the script and see if any other error occurs. 

### Handling Exception: `License links are invalid or not available for some dependencies`

If the script throws `License links are invalid or not available for some dependencies` exception, then the output would look something like this:

```
Please remove all the invalid links (if any) from maven_dependencies.textproto for the below mentioned dependencies and provide the valid license links manually.

maven_dependency {
  artifact_name: "io.fabric.sdk.android:fabric:1.4.7"
  artifact_version: "1.4.7"
  license {
    license_name: "Terms of Service for Firebase Services"
    original_link: "https://fabric.io/terms"
    is_original_link_invalid: true
  }
}

maven_dependency {
  artifact_name: "com.google.guava:failureaccess:1.0.1"
  artifact_version: "1.0.1"
}
```

To fix the error, consider the above example. For the first maven_dependency: "io.fabric.sdk.android:fabric:1.4.7", the original_link is invalid, and hence we need to find a valid link for this dependency. Please coordinate with the Oppia Android team and find a valid link for this dependency. Once you have a valid link for this license then categorize it as mentioned [here](https://github.com/oppia/oppia-android/wiki/Updating-Maven-Dependencies#categorizing-the-license-link).

For the second maven_dependency: "com.google.guava:failureaccess:1.0.1", you need to find a license by coordinating with the Oppia Android team and then specify it under the artifact_version field of the dependency. e.g - 

```textproto
maven_dependency {
  artifact_name: "com.google.guava:failureaccess:1.0.1"
  artifact_version: "1.0.1"
  license {
    license_name: "The Apache Software License, Version 2.0"
    scrapable_link {
      url: "https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.txt"
    }
  }
}
```

After updating maven_dependencies.textproto for all the called out dependencies, re-run the script. The script would pass if all the dependencies are updated successfully, and if it doesn't identify the exception being thrown and try to fix it with the help of the above-mentioned details.
